Add comprehensive documentation for resource extension points (#5004)
Azure/azure-service-operator: docs/hugo/content/contributing/extension-points/_index.md

---
title: Extension Points
linktitle: Extension Points

> weight: 100

Reviewer: I thought lower weight is "higher" on the page. I guess this is the index so this weight is about where this lands compared to othher contributing docs?

So this is at the end?

Just confirming this is correct as it seemed a little surprising to me

---

Azure Service Operator v2 provides several extension points that allow customization of resource behavior. These extension points enable contributors to compensate for variation in the behavior of resources by adding custom logic at various stages of the resource lifecycle.

## Overview

Extension points are Go interfaces defined in `v2/pkg/genruntime/extensions/` that resources can implement to customize their behavior. When a resource implements an extension interface, the controller will invoke the custom logic at the appropriate time during reconciliation.

### Extension Implementation Pattern

Extensions are typically implemented in resource-specific files under `v2/api/<service>/customizations/<resource>_extensions.go`. The general pattern is:

1. Declare that your extension type implements the interface:
   ```go
   var _ extensions.ARMResourceModifier = &MyResourceExtension{}
   ```

2. Implement the required method(s) of the interface

3. The controller automatically detects and uses the extension through a type-check at the appropriate time

### Available Extension Points

The following extension points are available for customizing resource behavior:

> | Extension Point | Purpose | When Invoked |

Reviewer 2: Done.

---
title: Extension Points
linktitle: Extension Points
weight: 100
menu:
  main:
    parent: Contributing
description: "How to extend Azure Service Operator v2 resources with custom behavior"
---

> Azure Service Operator v2 provides several extension points that allow customization of resource behavior beyond what is generated from Azure OpenAPI specifications. These extension points enable contributors to add custom logic at various stages of the resource lifecycle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Azure Service Operator v2 provides several extension points that allow customization of resource behavior. These extension points enable contributors to compensate for variation in the behavior of resources by adding custom logic at various stages of the resource lifecycle.
```
